# Bioinformatics Text-Mining System

The **Bioinformatics Text-Mining System** is a comprehensive platform designed for extracting, generating, and fine-tuning chemical abstracts and information from large datasets. Leveraging SQL databases, state-of-the-art language models, and advanced evaluation metrics, this system streamlines the extraction and analysis of chemical data for research and development purposes.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact Information](#contact-information)

## Overview

This system encompasses a series of processes, from data extraction to model evaluation, aimed at efficiently handling chemical information:

- **Data Extraction**: Utilizing SQL, the system extracts data from ChemFOnt and transforms it into triplets for further analysis.
- **Abstract Generation**: Leveraging Mistral-7b-OpenOrca and GPT-3.5-Turbo, the system generates abstracts based on the extracted triplets.
- **Model Fine-Tuning**: Using the generated abstracts, the system fine-tunes models such as Starling-7B-Alpha and Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-V0.1 to enhance their ability to process chemical articles and return relevant information.
- **Evaluation**: The system evaluates the performance of the fine-tuned models using standard metrics like Precision, Recall, and F1-score, along with novel metrics like bonus Precision and bonus Recall. Additionally, Jaro-Winkler similarity is employed for text similarity comparison. The fine-tuned Mixtral achieves a notable false positive percentage of 8%, surpassing GPT-3.5-Turbo.

## Files

- **Abstract_Generation**: Contains abstracts generated by Mistral-7b-OpenOrca and GPT-3.5-Turbo.
- **ChemFont_Tagger_Files**: Edited version of the ChemFont_Tagging directory, containing text files for all predicates in ChemFOnt.
- **Clusters**: Files containing different clustered variations of the abstracts/triplets.
- **Data**: Includes all training and test sets used in the system.
- **Evaluation**: Holds all resulting evaluations and graphs generated during model evaluation.
- **Finetune**: Contains fine-tuning scripts utilized in the system.
- **Scripts**: Houses all other scripts and notebooks used for various tasks.
- **Text_files**: Miscellaneous text files used within the system.

This repository serves as a centralized hub for accessing and managing the diverse components of the Bioinformatics Text-Mining System, facilitating efficient data analysis and exploration in the field of bioinformatics and chemistry.

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/your_username/bioinformatics-text-mining.git](https://github.com/navdeep5/Bioinformatics_Text_Mining_Chatbot.git)
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
   - Ensure you have access to Jupyter Notebooks as well as GPUs for training (A100s used in this case).

## Usage

To use the Bioinformatics Text-Mining System, follow these steps:

1. Use [Scripts](Scripts/) to access all scripts including those used for triplet extraction and generation, abstract generation, preparing datasets, cleaning results, drawing graphs, etc.
2. Use [Fientune](Fientune/) to access all fine-tuning scripts used in this system.
3. Use [Manual Evaluation](Scripts/manual_evaluation.py/) to create Excel spreadsheets for you to mark, and then re-run to compute metrics.

## Features

- Data extraction from SQL databases
- Abstract generation using language models
- Model fine-tuning for enhanced information retrieval
- Evaluation using various metrics including Precision, Recall, and F1-score

## Contributing

Contributions to the Bioinformatics Text-Mining System are welcome! If you have any suggestions, feature requests, or bug reports, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contact Information

For inquiries or collaborations, feel free to reach out via [email](mailto:navdeep5@ualberta.ca).
